README.md, before:


<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/modflowpy/flopy/master/examples/images/flopy3.png" alt="flopy3" style="width:50;height:20">

### Version 3.2.9 mp7part-refactor &mdash; build 215
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/modflowpy/flopy.svg?branch=mp7part-refactor)](https://travis-ci.org/modflowpy/flopy)
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flopy.png)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flopy)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/modflowpy/flopy/badge.svg?branch=mp7part-refactor)](https://coveralls.io/github/modflowpy/flopy?branch=mp7part-refactor)


Introduction
-----------------------------------------------

FloPy includes support for [MODFLOW 6](docs/mf6.md), MODFLOW-2005, MODFLOW-NWT, MODFLOW-USG, and MODFLOW-2000. Other supported MODFLOW-based models include MODPATH (version 6 and ***7 (beta)***), MT3DMS, MT3D-USGS, and SEAWAT.

For general modeling issues, please consult a modeling forum, such as the [MODFLOW Users Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/modflow).  Other MODFLOW resources are listed in the [MODFLOW Resources](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy#modflow-resources) section.


Contributing
------------------------------------------------

Contributions are welcome from the community. Questions can be asked on the [issues page](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/issues). Before creating a new issue, please take a  moment to search and make sure a similar issue does not already exist. If one does exist, you can comment (most simply even with just a `:+1:`) to show your support for that issue.

If you have direct contributions you would like considered for incorporation into the project you can [fork this repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and [submit a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for review.


Documentation
-----------------------------------------------

FloPy code documentation is available at [http://modflowpy.github.io/flopydoc/](http://modflowpy.github.io/flopydoc/)


Getting Started
-----------------------------------------------

### [Frequently asked questions](docs/flopyFAQ.md)

### [Tutorials](http://modflowpy.github.io/flopydoc/tutorials.html)

### [Additional jupyter Notebook Examples](docs/notebook_examples.md)

### [Python Script Examples](docs/script_examples.md)


If You Get Stuck
-----------------------------------------------

Flopy usage has been growing rapidly, and as the number of users has increased, so has the number of questions about how to use Flopy.  We ask our users to carefully consider the nature of their problem and seek help in the appropriate manner.

### Questions

For a question for how to do something with Flopy, we ask our users to submit the question to stackoverflow.com and assign the flopy tag to the question.  Many of our recent questions have been related to MODFLOW or Python, and the Flopy developers cannot always respond to these inquiries.  The link for flopy questions on Stack Overflow is [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/flopy).

### Bugs

If you think you have discovered a bug in Flopy in which you feel that the program does not work as intended, then we ask you to submit a Github issue by clicking on the Issues link at the top of this page.


FloPy Supported Packages
-----------------------------------------------

A list of supported packages in FloPy is available in [docs/supported_packages.md](docs/supported_packages.md) on the github repo.


FloPy Model Checks
-----------------------------------------------

A table of the supported and proposed model checks implemented in  FloPy is available in [docs/model_checks.md](docs/model_checks.md) on the github repo.


FloPy Changes
-----------------------------------------------

A summary of changes in each FloPy version is available in [docs/version_changes.md](docs/version_changes.md) on the github repo.


Installation
-----------------------------------------------

**Python versions:**

FloPy requires **Python** 2.7 or **Python** 3.3 (or higher)


**Dependencies:**

FloPy requires **NumPy** 1.9 (or higher) and **enum34** for **Python** 2.7 or **Python** 3.3.


**For base and Anaconda Python distributions:**

To install FloPy type:

    pip install flopy

or

	conda install -c conda-forge flopy

To update FloPy type:

    pip install flopy --upgrade

or

	conda update flopy

To uninstall FloPy type:

    pip uninstall flopy

or

	conda uninstall flopy


**Installing from the git repository:**

***Current Version of FloPy:***

To install the current version of FloPy from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/master

To update your version of FloPy with the current version from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/master --upgrade

***Development version of FloPy:***

To install the bleeding edge version of FloPy from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/develop

To update your version of FloPy with the bleeding edge code from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/develop --upgrade



***Optional Method Dependencies:***

Additional dependencies to use optional FloPy helper methods are listed below.

| Method                                                                               | Python Package                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `.plot()`                                                                            | **matplotlib** >= 1.4                              |
| `.plot_shapefile()`                                                                  | **matplotlib** >= 1.4 and **Pyshp** >= 1.2         |
| `.to_shapefile()`                                                                    | **Pyshp** >= 1.2                                   |
| `.export(*.shp)`                                                                     | **Pyshp** >= 1.2                                   |
| `.export(*.nc)`                                                                      | **netcdf4** >= 1.1 and **python-dateutil** >= 2.4  |
| `.export(*.tif)`                                                                     | **rasterio**                                       |
| `.export(*.asc)` in `flopy.utils.reference` `SpatialReference` class                 | **scipy.ndimage**                                  |
| `.interpolate()` in `flopy.utils.reference` `SpatialReference` class                 | **scipy.interpolate**                              |
| `.interpolate()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.reference` `StructuredSpatialReference` class   | **scipy.interpolate**                              |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.mflistfile` `ListBudget` class                   | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.observationfile` `ObsFiles` class                | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.sfroutputfile` `ModflowSfr2` class               | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.util_list` `MfList` class                        | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.zonebud` `ZoneBudget` class                      | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.pivot_keyarray()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.arrayutils` `AdvancedPackageUtil` class      | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `._get_vertices()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.binaryfile_utils` `MFOutputRequester` class   | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframe()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.mfobservation` `Observations` class           | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.df()` in `flopy.modflow.mfsfr2` `SfrFile` class                                    | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.time_coverage()` in `flopy.export.metadata` `acc` class - ***used if available***  | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.loadtxt()` in `flopy.utils.flopyio` - ***used if available***                      | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |


How to Cite
-----------------------------------------------

##### ***Citation for FloPy:***

[Bakker, M., Post, V., Langevin, C. D., Hughes, J. D., White, J. T., Starn, J. J. and Fienen, M. N., 2016, Scripting MODFLOW Model Development Using Python and FloPy: Groundwater, v. 54, p. 733–739, doi:10.1111/gwat.12413.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gwat.12413)

##### ***Software/Code citation for FloPy:***

[Bakker, M., Post, V., Langevin, C.D., Hughes, J.D., White, J.T., Starn, J.J., and Fienen, M.N., 2018, FloPy v3.2.9 &mdash; mp7part-refactor: U.S. Geological Survey Software Release, 13 October 2018, http://dx.doi.org/10.5066/F7BK19FH](http://dx.doi.org/10.5066/F7BK19FH)


MODFLOW Resources
-----------------------------------------------

+ [MODFLOW and Related Programs](http://water.usgs.gov/ogw/modflow/)
+ [Online guide for MODFLOW-2000](http://water.usgs.gov/nrp/gwsoftware/modflow2000/Guide/index.html)
+ [Online guide for MODFLOW-2005](http://water.usgs.gov/ogw/modflow/MODFLOW-2005-Guide/)
+ [Online guide for MODFLOW-NWT](http://water.usgs.gov/ogw/modflow-nwt/MODFLOW-NWT-Guide/)


Disclaimer
----------

This software is preliminary or provisional and is subject to revision. It is
being provided to meet the need for timely best science. The software has not
received final approval by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). No warranty,
expressed or implied, is made by the USGS or the U.S. Government as to the
functionality of the software and related material nor shall the fact of release
constitute any such warranty. The software is provided on the condition that
neither the USGS nor the U.S. Government shall be held liable for any damages
resulting from the authorized or unauthorized use of the software.

Commit message:

docs: update documentation
Update docstrings for MFGridFile class. Update README.md and
CONTRIBUTING.md. Update pre-commit.py to use develop branch for
branches with "-" or ":" in the branch name (it is assumed these
are bug fix or feature branches for the develop branch.

README.md, after:


<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/modflowpy/flopy/master/examples/images/flopy3.png" alt="flopy3" style="width:50;height:20">

### Version 3.2.9 develop &mdash; build 214
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/modflowpy/flopy.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/modflowpy/flopy)
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flopy.png)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flopy)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/modflowpy/flopy/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/modflowpy/flopy?branch=develop)


Introduction
-----------------------------------------------

FloPy includes support for [MODFLOW 6](docs/mf6.md), MODFLOW-2005, MODFLOW-NWT, MODFLOW-USG, and MODFLOW-2000. Other supported MODFLOW-based models include MODPATH (version 6 and ***7 (beta)***), MT3DMS, MT3D-USGS, and SEAWAT.

For general modeling issues, please consult a modeling forum, such as the [MODFLOW Users Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/modflow).  Other MODFLOW resources are listed in the [MODFLOW Resources](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy#modflow-resources) section.


Contributing
------------------------------------------------

Bug reports, code contributions, or improvements to the documentation are welcome from the community. Prior to contributing, please read up on our guidelines for [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) and then check out one of our issues in the [hotlist: community-help](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/labels/hotlist%3A%20community%20help).


Documentation
-----------------------------------------------

FloPy code documentation is available at [http://modflowpy.github.io/flopydoc/](http://modflowpy.github.io/flopydoc/)


Getting Started
-----------------------------------------------

### [Frequently asked questions](docs/flopyFAQ.md)

### [Tutorials](http://modflowpy.github.io/flopydoc/tutorials.html)

### [Additional jupyter Notebook Examples](docs/notebook_examples.md)

### [Python Script Examples](docs/script_examples.md)


If You Get Stuck
-----------------------------------------------

FloPy usage has been growing rapidly, and as the number of users has increased, so has the number of questions about how to use FloPy.  We ask our users to carefully consider the nature of their problem and seek help in the appropriate manner.

### Questions

For questions related to how to do something with FloPy, we ask our users to submit the question to [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com) and assign the [flopy](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/flopy) tag.  Many of our recent questions have been related to MODFLOW or Python, and the Flopy developers cannot always respond to these inquiries.

### Bugs

If you think you have discovered a bug in FloPy in which you feel that the program does not work as intended, then we ask you to submit a [Github issue](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/labels/bug).


FloPy Supported Packages
-----------------------------------------------

A list of supported packages in FloPy is available in [docs/supported_packages.md](docs/supported_packages.md) on the github repo.


FloPy Model Checks
-----------------------------------------------

A table of the supported and proposed model checks implemented in  FloPy is available in [docs/model_checks.md](docs/model_checks.md) on the github repo.


FloPy Changes
-----------------------------------------------

A summary of changes in each FloPy version is available in [docs/version_changes.md](docs/version_changes.md) on the github repo.


Installation
-----------------------------------------------

**Python versions:**

FloPy requires **Python** 2.7 or **Python** 3.3 (or higher)


**Dependencies:**

FloPy requires **NumPy** 1.9 (or higher) and **enum34** for **Python** 2.7 or **Python** 3.3.


**For base and Anaconda Python distributions:**

To install FloPy type:

    pip install flopy

or

	conda install -c conda-forge flopy

To update FloPy type:

    pip install flopy --upgrade

or

	conda update flopy

To uninstall FloPy type:

    pip uninstall flopy

or

	conda uninstall flopy


**Installing from the git repository:**

***Current Version of FloPy:***

To install the current version of FloPy from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/master

To update your version of FloPy with the current version from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/master --upgrade

***Development version of FloPy:***

To install the bleeding edge version of FloPy from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/develop

To update your version of FloPy with the bleeding edge code from the git repository type:

    pip install https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/zipball/develop --upgrade



***Optional Method Dependencies:***

Additional dependencies to use optional FloPy helper methods are listed below.

| Method                                                                               | Python Package                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `.plot()`                                                                            | **matplotlib** >= 1.4                              |
| `.plot_shapefile()`                                                                  | **matplotlib** >= 1.4 and **Pyshp** >= 1.2         |
| `.to_shapefile()`                                                                    | **Pyshp** >= 1.2                                   |
| `.export(*.shp)`                                                                     | **Pyshp** >= 1.2                                   |
| `.export(*.nc)`                                                                      | **netcdf4** >= 1.1 and **python-dateutil** >= 2.4  |
| `.export(*.tif)`                                                                     | **rasterio**                                       |
| `.export(*.asc)` in `flopy.utils.reference` `SpatialReference` class                 | **scipy.ndimage**                                  |
| `.interpolate()` in `flopy.utils.reference` `SpatialReference` class                 | **scipy.interpolate**                              |
| `.interpolate()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.reference` `StructuredSpatialReference` class   | **scipy.interpolate**                              |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.mflistfile` `ListBudget` class                   | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.observationfile` `ObsFiles` class                | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.sfroutputfile` `ModflowSfr2` class               | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.util_list` `MfList` class                        | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframes()` in `flopy.utils.zonebud` `ZoneBudget` class                      | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.pivot_keyarray()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.arrayutils` `AdvancedPackageUtil` class      | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `._get_vertices()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.binaryfile_utils` `MFOutputRequester` class   | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.get_dataframe()` in `flopy.mf6.utils.mfobservation` `Observations` class           | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.df()` in `flopy.modflow.mfsfr2` `SfrFile` class                                    | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.time_coverage()` in `flopy.export.metadata` `acc` class - ***used if available***  | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |
| `.loadtxt()` in `flopy.utils.flopyio` - ***used if available***                      | **pandas** >= 0.15                                 |


How to Cite
-----------------------------------------------

##### ***Citation for FloPy:***

[Bakker, M., Post, V., Langevin, C. D., Hughes, J. D., White, J. T., Starn, J. J. and Fienen, M. N., 2016, Scripting MODFLOW Model Development Using Python and FloPy: Groundwater, v. 54, p. 733–739, doi:10.1111/gwat.12413.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gwat.12413)

##### ***Software/Code citation for FloPy:***

[Bakker, M., Post, V., Langevin, C.D., Hughes, J.D., White, J.T., Starn, J.J., and Fienen, M.N., 2018, FloPy v3.2.9 &mdash; develop: U.S. Geological Survey Software Release, 16 October 2018, http://dx.doi.org/10.5066/F7BK19FH](http://dx.doi.org/10.5066/F7BK19FH)


MODFLOW Resources
-----------------------------------------------

+ [MODFLOW and Related Programs](http://water.usgs.gov/ogw/modflow/)
+ [Online guide for MODFLOW-2000](http://water.usgs.gov/nrp/gwsoftware/modflow2000/Guide/index.html)
+ [Online guide for MODFLOW-2005](http://water.usgs.gov/ogw/modflow/MODFLOW-2005-Guide/)
+ [Online guide for MODFLOW-NWT](http://water.usgs.gov/ogw/modflow-nwt/MODFLOW-NWT-Guide/)


Disclaimer
----------

This software is preliminary or provisional and is subject to revision. It is
being provided to meet the need for timely best science. The software has not
received final approval by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). No warranty,
expressed or implied, is made by the USGS or the U.S. Government as to the
functionality of the software and related material nor shall the fact of release
constitute any such warranty. The software is provided on the condition that
neither the USGS nor the U.S. Government shall be held liable for any damages
resulting from the authorized or unauthorized use of the software.
