# Releasing FloPy

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Initial steps](#initial-steps)
- [Release procedure](#release-procedure)
  - [Automated releases](#automated-releases)
    - [Dry runs](#dry-runs)
    - [Production mode](#production-mode)
  - [Manual releases](#manual-releases)
    - [Release from `master` branch](#release-from-master-branch)
    - [Reinitialize `develop` branch](#reinitialize-develop-branch)
    - [Publish the release](#publish-the-release)
      - [PyPI](#pypi)
      - [Conda](#conda)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->


## Initial steps

The FloPy release procedure is mostly automated with GitHub Actions in [`release.yml`](../.github/workflows/release.yml), but there are a few manual steps to complete first:

1.  Update `usgsprograms.txt` in the [GitHub pymake repository](https://github.com/modflowpy/pymake) with the path to the new MODFLOW 6 release. Also update all other targets in `usgsprograms.txt` with the path to new releases.

2.  Trigger a new release for the [executables repository](https://github.com/MODFLOW-ORG/executables), either via the GitHub Actions UI or GitHub CLI. See the executables repo's `DEVELOPER.md` for more information. Wait for the release to be published.

3. Update the authors in `CITATION.cff` for the Software/Code citation for FloPy, if required.

4. If this is a minor or major release, review deprecation warnings (if this is a patch release, skip this step). Correct any deprecation version numbers if necessary &mdash; for instance, if the warning was added in the latest development cycle but incorrectly anticipated the forthcoming release number (e.g., if this release was expected to be minor but was promoted to major). If any deprecations are due this release, remove the corresponding features. FloPy loosely follows [NEP 23](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0023-backwards-compatibility.html) deprecation guidelines: removal is recommended after at least 1 year or 2 non-patch releases.

    To search for deprecation warnings with git: `git grep [-[A/B/C]N] <pattern>`, where N is the optional number of extra lines of context and A/B/C selects post-context/pre-context/both, respectively. Some terms to search for:

    - deprecated
    - .. deprecated::
    - DEPRECATED
    - DeprecationWarning
    - FutureWarning


## Release procedure

Once initial tasks are completed, making a new release involves the following steps:

1. Release from `master` branch
2. Reinitialize `develop` branch
3. Publish the package to PyPI
4. Publish the package to Conda

These steps are automated with GitHub Actions in [`release.yml`](../.github/workflows/release.yml), but documentation for running the steps manually is provided in the [Manual releases](#manual-releases) section below.

### Automated releases

To begin an automated release, create a release branch from `develop`. The release branch name should be the version number with a `v` prefix (e.g. `v3.3.6`), with an optional `rc` suffix. If the branch name ends with `rc` it is considered a preliminary release candidate. If the branch name does not end with `rc` the release is considered production-ready. The automated workflow for approved, production-ready releases includes more steps than for release candidates.

Pushing the release branch starts the automated workflow. Manual intervention is only necessary to approve autogenerated pull requests and publish the autogenerated release post.

When the release branch is pushed to the `modflowpy/flopy` repository, the release workflow begins with the following steps:

- update version strings to match the version number in the release branch name
- regenerate plugin classes from MODFLOW 6 DFN files
- rerun tests and notebooks
- generate and update changelogs
- build and test the FloPy package

For more detail regarding specific steps, see the [Manual releases](#manual-releases) section below.

#### Dry runs

If the branch name ends with `rc`, the workflow is a dry run, and ends here. No PRs are opened, a release is not created, and the release is not published to PyPI or Conda. The `flopy` package and the changelog are uploaded as artifacts, allowing manual inspection.

#### Production mode

If the branch name does not end with `rc`, the workflow will proceed to open a PR updating `master` from the release branch. Merging this PR to `master` triggers another job to draft a release.

**Note:** the PR should be merged, not squashed. Squashing removes the commit history from the `master` branch and causes `develop` and `master` to diverge, which can cause future PRs updating `master` to replay commits from previous releases.

Publishing the release triggers a final job to publish the `flopy` package to PyPI.

##### Trusted publishing

The automated release workflow assumes [trusted publishing](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/) has been configured in the PyPI admin interface. A GitHub environment called `release` is also required (however it needs no secrets or environment variables).

### Manual releases

As described above, making a release manually involves the following steps:

1. Release from `master` branch
2. Reinitialize `develop` branch
3. Publish the package to PyPI
4. Publish the package to Conda


#### Release from `master` branch

- Run `python scripts/update_version.py -v <semver>` to update the version number stored in `version.txt` and `flopy/version.py`. For an approved release use the `--approve` flag.

- Update MODFLOW 6 dfn files in the repository and MODFLOW 6 package classes by running `python -m flopy.mf6.utils.generate_classes --ref master --no-backup`

- Run `ruff check .` and `ruff format .` from the project root.

- Generate a changelog starting from the last release with [git cliff](https://github.com/orhun/git-cliff), for instance: `git cliff --config cliff.toml --unreleased --tag=<release version number>`.

- Prepend the release changelog to the comprehensive changelog file `docs/version_changes.md`.

- Commit changes to the release branch and push the commit to the [`modflowpy/flopy` GitHub repository](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy) (you must have write permissions on the repo).

- Update master branch from the release branch, e.g. by opening and merging a pull request into `master`. The pull request should be merged, *not* squashed, in order to preserve the project's commit history.

- [Make a release](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/releases) from the `master` branch. Add the release changelog as the release post contents. Publish the release.

- GitHub should have tagged the most recent revision of `master` with the release number &mdash; if for some reason this did not occur automatically, tag `master` with the version number (`git tag <version>`) and push the tag to `modflowpy/flopy` (e.g., if you have your fork's remote named `origin` and `modflowpy/flopy` as `upstream`, as is typical, use `git push upstream --tags`).


#### Reinitialize `develop` branch

1.  Merge the `master` branch into the `develop` branch.

2.  Set the development version as appropriate: `python scripts/update_version.py -v <version>`. The version number must comply with [PEP 440](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/).

3.  Lint and format Python files: `ruff check .` and `ruff format .` from the project root.

4.  Commit and push the updated `develop` branch.


#### Publish the release

##### PyPI

1.  Make sure the latest `build` and `twine` tools are installed using:

    ```
    pip install --upgrade build twine
    ```

2.  Create the source and wheel packages with:

    ```
    rm -rf dist
    python -m build
    ```

3.  Check and upload the release to PyPI using:

    ```
    twine check --strict dist/*
    twine upload dist/*
    ```

##### Conda

For the Conda distribution, there [is a bot](https://github.com/regro-cf-autotick-bot) which will [automatically detect new package versions uploaded to PyPI and create a PR](https://github.com/conda-forge/flopy-feedstock/pull/50) to update the `conda-forge/flopy-feedstock` repository. This PR can be reviewed, updated if needed, and merged to update the package on the `conda-forge` channel.

A Conda update can be performed manually with the following steps, substituting one's own fork of `conda-forge/flopy-feedstock`:

1.  Download the `*.tar.gz` file for the just-created release from the [GitHub website](https://github.com/modflowpy/flopy/releases).

2.  Calculate the sha256 checksum for the `*.tar.gz` using:

    ```
    openssl sha256 flopy-version.tar.gz
    ```

    from a terminal.

3.  Pull upstream [flopy-feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/flopy-feedstock) into local copy of the [flopy-feedstock fork](https://github.com/jdhughes-usgs/flopy-feedstock) repo:

    ```
    cd /Users/jdhughes/Documents/Development/flopy-feedstock_git
    git fetch upstream
    git checkout master
    git reset --hard upstream/master
    git push origin master --force
    ```

4.  Rerender the repo using `conda-smithy` (make sure `conda-smithy` is installed using conda):

    ```
    conda smithy rerender
    ```

4.  Update the version number in `{% set version = "3.2.7" %}` and sha256 in the [flopy-feedstock fork meta.yaml](https://github.com/jdhughes-usgs/flopy-feedstock/blob/master/recipe/meta.yaml) file.

5.  Commit changes and push to [flopy-feedstock fork](https://github.com/jdhughes-usgs/flopy-feedstock).

6.  Make pull request to [flopy-feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/flopy-feedstock)
